# 🗓️ 2021-01-27  Team Identity: Async Meeting Notes
###### tags: `IOTA Identity` `Meeting` `Docs`


## ℹ️ Info
**Location**: Google Hangouts
**Date**: Wednesday, 2021-01-27 - 17:00 to 18:00 (CET) 
**Agenda**
- 1. Standup `5min`
- 2. Discussion topics `45min`
- 3. Questions `10min`

## 👥 Participants
- @JelleMillenaar
- @l1h3r
- @eike-hass


### ⏪ What did you achieved last week?
- Experimented with revocation via bitmaps and sparse merkle trees. Started looking into Stronghold integration and basic outline of identity storage module.
- worked on the thesis and the enrichment concept

### What did block you?
- 

### ⏩ What will be the focus this week?
- 

## 💬 Discussion topics
- Revocation
- Enrichment / Public Credentials

--- 
### Revocation

- Previously blocked by the inability to trust user-provided `index` for checking the revocation status of the submitted key.
  - Solved: We can compute the index of the target by checking the tags of proof nodes (L/R)

- Useful to plot the efficiency of Roaring Bitmaps with various revocation strategies
  - Sequential appears most efficient, with or without containers using run-length encoding
  - Uniform is least efficient, typically using at least 2 bits for each revoked key

- Base58
  - Not ideal for large amounts of binary data - base64 is generally faster to encode/decode due to the alphabet size.
  - Switching to base64 for now but in the future will likely use a binary format for storing data on the Tangle

### Enrichment / Public Credentials

- Enrichment (EN) and Public Credentials (PC) are basically the same concept: A VC that is discoverable via a DID Service Endpoint.
- EN/PC can be embedded in a transaction
- Easiest way to update EN/PC is to create a new transaction and update the service endpoint 