# ğŸ—“ï¸ Team Identity Meeting Notes - 2020-09-02

## ğŸ‘¥ Participants
- @Thoralf-M
- @nothingismagick
- @l1h3r
- @tensor-programming
- @JelleMillenaar
- @huhn511
- @vidalattias

## ğŸ’¬ Discussion topics
- 
-
- 


## â­ï¸ Next Meeting
Wednesday, 2020-09-09 - 17:00 to 18:00 (CEST) 