
# ğŸ—“ï¸ Team Identity Meeting Notes - 2020-07-29

## ğŸ‘¥ Participants
- @Thoralf-M
- @nothingismagick
- @vidalattias
- @JelleMillenaar


## ğŸ’¬ Discussion topics
- Cryptographic Accumulators: 
    - Read up for next week (@vidalattias)
    - Possibly do a PoC with that

- DID Comms: 
    - What is going to be the communications layer?
        - Abstracted from the library
    - Base HTTP, MQTT implementations?
    - Possibly use IOTA Nodes as Peer-to-peer relay server?
    
- Should Service Endpoints be encrypted to prevent spam?
    - They are ment to be public info
    - Possibily allow both encrypted and unencrypted
    
- Identity.ts mentions not posting human identities, should we?
    - Yes, outdated stance, we do have to protect human privacy as much as possible.