# 🗓️ Team Identity Meeting Notes - 2020-08-19

## 👥 Participants
- @Devin 
- @Thoralf-M
- @nothingismagick
- @JelleMillenaar
- @huhn511

## 💬 Discussion topics
- Standup round
    - @Thoralf-M
        - Blocking: Where do we store trytes for reattaching/rebroadcast.
            - In Memory (what if programm crashes)
            - **Just create a new transaction**
        - Which Hashing function do we use?
            - Do we support Chrysalis Phase 1 or 2?
        - Todo: Transaction Formats (Jelle) 
        - Plans for next week
            - Resolver
    - @huhn511
        - Blocking: Nothing 
        - Plans for next week
            - Use Core DID Data Structure for VC
    - @JelleMillenaar
        - TangleEE Intoduction
        - Plans for next week
            - Setup Readme
    - @nothingismagick
        - PM with Clickup
    - @tensor
      - Blocking: Nothing
      - Work from Last week:
          - Built a Parser for the DID and built out the logic to represent both the DID and the DID document in Rust. 
      - Plans for next week
          - Work on the DID document parser and experiment with Nom and Pest to determine which is more preformant. Continue to build out the Core library to completion. 

- Making the repo public
    - -> After the readme cleanup
- Rust questions
- Code Review Request: 
    - [Feat(Integration)/Implement tangle_writer and tangle_reader #12](https://github.com/iotaledger/identity.rs/pull/12)
        - Suggestion: Live Review with Tensor for Feedbacks 
            - Setup a Meeting and tell the team (@huhn)
- Clarify wording
    - huhn: we have "identity" as a prefix in the git and "did" as a prefix on cargo.io
    - Tensor: We actually have both on crates.io. I registered both did_* and identity_*. Honestly don't think identity_* is too long given that users can just alias the crates if they have to. I guess one main topic is just to discuss what we've been doing this week thus far and whether or not anyone has any blocking tasks they need to get resolved.
    - *clarification*: Registered both identity_* and did_* as prefixes on the crates.io website. In other words, all packages could have either name offically.
    - -> **identity**
- Discord Standup Bot
    - Ask Dave for Standup Discord Bot (@huhn)


## TODOS for next week
- Make CI/CD Pipeling running for Thoralfs branch (@Rajiv)

## Rust questions

1. Can I run a single test - without displaying others?
Example:

*/identity_integration/src/tangle_writer.rs:test_publish_document*

> `$ cargo run test_publish_document`
> You can see all of the options for the CLI by running `$ cargo test --help`. `$ cargo test -- --nocapture` is another command that you may want to keep in mind since it allows you to print from a test. With VSCode you will also see grey text above your tests if you are using the `rust-lang.rust` extension. Clicking the grey `run test` text will run that test in the editor's terminal. `$cargo test <test name> -- --show-output` also does make it easier to read what has passed and what has failed.

2. How can I write async tests? Best practise.

> This will depend on the type of async runtime you are using. Most of them have their own testing macros. For example tokio has `tokio::test` and you can find information about that [here](https://docs.rs/tokio/0.2.22/tokio/attr.test.html). In rust, futures require a defined executor/runtime to resolve; tokio gives you that runtime through its test macro. If you are using a custom executor, there are various other ways to approach this question but you can also use a dependency like `tokio` or `actix_rt` without adding bloat to the crate by adding it as a `[dev-dependency]`. In your PR you are using `#[smol_potat::test]` which is basically the equivilant to doing something like this: 
```rust
#[test]
fn async_test() {
  smol::run(async {
    ..async logic
  });
}

#[smol_potat::test]
async fn async_test() {
  ..async logic
}
```
> Adding a smol::run call to a #[smol_potat::test] is redundant because the proc macro is already providing the runtime to that test. 

3. How to handle errors?

> We are using `anyhow` and `thiserror` for this. With `thiserror` you can setup custom error types via an Enum and a custom Result type:
```rust
/// these are aliased since Error and Result are the names 
/// of the types we are creating here. (don't want multiple things named Result or Error).
use thiserror::Error as DeriveError;
use anyhow::Result as AnyhowResult;

/// The Error enum that will encapsulate all of the errors in our crate.
/// Can include basic errors, Errors with types in them and/or errors 
/// from other crates that implement the TryInto/TryFrom traits. 
#[derive(Debug, DeriveError)]
pub enum Error {
  // A basic error
  #[error("Some Error: Error description.")]
  SomeError,
  // A basic error with a String inside of it 
  // (can put any data type you want in an error)
  #[error("Another error with data in it: {0}")]
  AnotherErrorWithData(String),
  // An error that derives from serde_json::Error using the #[from] proc macro.  
  // It will derive TryFrom for serde_json::Error to our new Error.
  #[error("Error from another existing error type: {0}")]
  SerdeError(#[from] serde_json::Error),
}

/// to use these error and result types, we can export them with 
/// `pub use error::{Error, Result};` from the top level file.
/// You can access the result by calling crate::Result<T>
/// where T equals the return type of the function.
/// The Error type can be accessed by calling crate::Error::ErrorType
/// An example could look like this:
///
/// fn test() -> crate::Result<()> {
///   if some_condition {
///      Ok(())
///   } else {
///     Err(crate::Error::SomeError)
///   }
/// }
pub type Result<T> = AnyhowResult<T, Error>;

```

> The Error output comes from the string that you write into the error proc macro.  With Errors that have types in them or derive from other error types, you can use string interpolation to extend the description. With the serde_json error, the original error output from the serde_json error will be wrapped in the strong in place of the `{0}` characters. 

> For anyhow, we can use the Result type to get many nice features. You can attach context to your errors and chain errors together to see where the stacktrace is going or coming from. You can find more information in the anyhow [documentation](https://docs.rs/anyhow/1.0.32/anyhow/) and in a future video that I will make. Many of the features just come packaged if you use the anyhow Result type in your crate. 

4. Implement practise - (OOP vs Functional) 

> Rust is an imperative first language with features from OOP and Functional languages. Generally, you want to approach the code with an imperative mindset before you move into using Functional/OOP features. Its also completely acceptable to try to emulate OOP design in Rust though certain patterns will end up being more verbose than they need to be. The Builder pattern for instance, is something that is widely used but is also a bit unwieldy in Rust. You can get away with using Traits and various other features to build out something much less verbose. A lot of this is just opinion and as you work with Rust you will start to understand what works and what doesn't by way of the borrow checker. Resources such as [this](https://github.com/rust-unofficial/patterns) can also help you get a handle on the idioms. 

5. Where are we storing data (for example trytes for reattaching or bundleHash to check cofirmation layer)?

> Its going to depend on various things.  We did talk about using Stronghold and data can be stored that way, though for data that doesn't need to be secure/encrypted maybe we should look into building a storage layer or using something a little more generic. 

6. How should we comment the code? 
> When inside of a function or block of code, use two forward slashes (`//`) when outside of a function use three forward slashes (`///`). Clippy will also help you identity if the comment isn't appropriate. Comment Blocks can be made using `/* */` with `/** **/` being reserved for outer block documents. A `!` can be appended to these comment types to make them module level comments or `inner doc comments`. A comment preceeded by `//!` or `///!` is a single line `inner doc comment`. Comments can be nested and you can also write document tests/examples inside of comments. You should also use markdown when writing your comments as it will be parsed by the document tools. You can find more information about comments in the rust book [here](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch03-04-comments.html?highlight=comment#comments) and [here](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch14-02-publishing-to-crates-io.html?highlight=document#making-useful-documentation-comments).


## ⏭️ Next Meeting
Wednesday, 2020-08-26 - 17:00 to 18:00 (CEST) 


