# ğŸ—“ï¸ Team Identity Meeting Notes - 2020-09-09

## ğŸ‘¥ Participants
- @Thoralf-M
- @nothingismagick
- @vidalattias
- @tensor-programming
- @JelleMillenaar
- @huhn511
- @l1h3r

## ğŸ’¬ Discussion topics
- Standup
- Questions
- 



### Standup

#### What was last week's progress on your project?
- 
- 
- 

#### What will be the project's focus this week?
-
- 
- 

### Questions

Q:
A: